1**After learning more about our programs and mission, why do you feel you are a good fit for MITES programs in particular? You may choose to comment on one or more of the following points:**

- How you see your participation in our programs supporting the mission of MITES to serve underrepresented and/or underserved students.
	- my participation would support the goal of supporting underrepresented students. As an African, my people are very underrepresented in the field of science. My participation in the mites program would be able to increase the amount of Africans in the science industry, as it would support an inspiring African scientist. 
- How you would benefit from participation in a program designed for underrepresented and/or underserved students.
	- I would benefit being a from a heavily underfunded school. If i was gieven this oppurtunity, I would be able to have acsess to labs and advanced scieence equipment that I do not currently have acsess to. My school Is called Balboa High School and is in the Excelsior or outer mission district of San Fransico. It is an area populated with low income immigrant family. Our school's lab eqipment is ver very shoddy. In my biology class, we were barely able to do one experiemtn before the end of the first sememster. As the school is very underfunded and has very low funding, this is the unfortunate learning situation I was placed in. In turn, It would be very helpful to be able to participate in this program. It would be able to give the support and 
- If aspects of your background have served as an obstacle or barrier to educational access or opportunity.
- How you have impacted your community to improve equity and inclusion for those from underrepresented and/or underserved backgrounds.
	- Last year, I stared a club at my school called the Brain Food Society. Being a public school in a low income immigrant family neighborhood, our club operates with the goal of supporting other low income students of color like us. The club currently has over 70 members and has had more than 100 meetings. We invite college counselors, professors, and model students to present to our club. We have currently raised over 800 dollars through fundraising and grants. We recently applied and received a grant from  Some of our accomplishments involve
	- I currently work at a museum/ workshop called the Mission science workshop. The Mission Science workshop is a half museum, half workshop space dedicated too bringing science to elementary to middle schoolers in San Francisco. 
- (_100-400 words_)
