 Why did you choose these research fields?
	 Articulate why the research fields chosen on the previous page are intriguing and exciting to you. For each sub-field, state what you perceive as the one or two most interesting questions or problems in this area.  Explain why these sorts of questions interest you. Your responses are shared with mentors. Please respond with clarity and specificity, including what specific prior research/coursework/etc experiences have prepared you to "hit the ground running" in these fields at RSI.
		 -I chose the topic of Biology because of my love for life. One of the biggest people in my life has been my grandfather. He always taught me to preserve life, and wouldn't let me kill a single ant. Ever since then I have loved all forms of life. It has led me to raising several species. I have raised everything from
		 -Lat year I had my first white christmas. Being SF born and raised, I don't see snow often. Despite being in a winter wonderland in the amazing sierra nevadas, I felt empty inside. Seeing greenery makes me feel happy and safe. The glistenting snow that covered all of the greenery covered one of the things that makes me happy.
**What are your long-range goals?
	My long term goals are to pursue a career in Wetland biology. I hope to be able to earn a phd in marine science from UCLA. I hope to be able to research all over the world. I wish my research would be able to take me all over the world, from korea to ethiopia, to columbia. As water is universal, this is why i hope to pursue a marine scicence degree. It would allow me to research different wetlands all over the world.