
What scholarly topic(s) do you currently find most interesting and why? When and how did you become aware of it? How have you explored it? Feel free to discuss a topic in STEM, out of STEM, or both.
    

We know you lead a busy life, full of activities, many of which are required of you. Tell us about something you choose to do for enjoyment or relaxation.
	 I love to create terrariums. Two of my biggest interests are in science and art. I have been in both science and art. Terrariums allow me to combine both of those passions. The design of terrariums takes two parts. As terrariums are enclosed ecosystems and are self sustainable, there is a huge scientific aspect to them. You must be able to combined the right amount of plants, and animals. You should have many parts of the food chain, such as isopods and springtails to break down rotten plant matter. You need to dictate the depth of the drainage layer based on how wet your environment will be. In order to decide the specifics of your terrarium, there is a need for meticulous research and planning. This is the science aspect of the build. After you gather all of your materials and set your depths, and watering cycles, it's time to piece everything together. This is the part of the build which depends more on art. I use principles of design and proportions in order to do all of the hardscaping and landscaping for my build, along with deciding where to place the various plants which will make up the build. Cluttering your build and placing too many plants and branches all over could mess up the aesthetics of the build, and so could adding plants with leaf sizes and shapes which contrast each other.  One of the pricipals of design which i often use in my builds is the rule of thrids. the rule of thirds is an idea of seperating the feild of veiw into 9 equally sized squares. this creates a grid which you then use to organize the objects you want to capture. The other part of the rule of thirds is proportians. you have to orgainze all of the items in   

    

There are many ways to spend your summer. Why specifically are you applying to SSP?
	I hope to apply to ssp in order to expand my experience in the field of applied science. This is the place I will spend the rest of my life in, and i hope to be able to gain the most experience before i start.
	 I was recently able to visit a lab through one of my teachers. She invited me to visit her partner’s lab. He is a science photographer for National geographic. Having traveled the world to all kinds of ecosystems and labs during the beggining of his    career in science photography, he had recently settled down and started his own person lab where he explores the 
    

How did you spend your time last summer?
	Last summer was split between two months, with the second month being much more interesting than the first. During the first month I did 3 things. I worked, swam and attended art class. During the second month, I attended a summer school program called COSMOS. It was one of the best experiences of my life. I was able to participate in a 4 week research and learning program in which I took two college classes. It was housed at UCSC, and I took marine mammal physiology, and microbiology. I was able to complete a research project on plastic eating bacteria. I was assigned the topic of researching  the use of microbial microcosms to combat plastic pollution with my partner. To start the project, me and my partner vigorously studied the topic. We learned all about the process of biodegradation of plastics in the oceans, in which they become broken apart through Prior to my research, I felt hopeful about the use of bacteria to deal with plastic pollution, however my findings proved otherwise. The species that was the most successful in biodegrading the plastic was called the pseudomona, a  gram negative bacteria found in waterways, which can be dangerous to humans. 
 Communities can be large or small, well defined or informal. Tell us about a community you belong to and how engaging in that community has shaped your life and experiences.
	 one community I belong to is that of the Mission science workshop. I currently work as an exhibit technician, but my journey and experience with the Mission science workshop started much prior. I first started as a little kid, going with my grandpa. He once tagged along when my father brought me and loved the space so much that he wanted to bring me everytime starting then. He would teach me how to use all of the tools, from saws, to hammers, to drills.
 
 Tell us about a non-academic challenge that you have faced, something in your family, your community, or your personal life that you are proud to have overcome and how you grew from the experience.
	 Swimming is a huge part of my life. I go swimming 4 days a week, 2 hours a day. Twice a month, I spend my entire weekend at a swim meet, trying to improve my times by milliseconds. Swimming is possibly one of the most cardiovascular demanding sports. Not only are you moving your entire body very fast, you also have to control your breathing. However, I have asthma. This is possibly one of the biggest challenges I have had to face and overcome. Asthma is a condition in  which your airways can become smaller, which makes it much harder for oxygen to pass to the lungs to be spread throughout the body. This makes it feel like you dont breath despite trying to breath really hard.
    
Write a short thank-you note to someone you have not yet thanked and would like to acknowledge. (We encourage you to share this note with that person, if possible, and reflect on the experience!)

1. I would love to thank one of the best teachers I ever had, my kindergarten teacher, Ms.Young. She was so very supportive of my passion for science when i was at such a young age. She would send me postcard of the different space stations and museums she would visit
 
We are all pushed and pulled by the people around us, their expectations, their goals and ambitions, their hopes for us. If we removed all of that, what would you want to do with your life? Would your path, your destination, your ambition change?
	one of my biggest interests is in fashion and art. If i were not influened by my community I would want to create my own brand.  my second biggest interest after science is fashion. i fell into fashion in the second year of high school and ever since have grown my knowledge and wardrobe, while my bank account has shrunk exponantially. Increasing interest in fashion and my bank account have a inverse relationship. My current biggest inspirations are on opposite sides of the world. THug Club
		