

### Explain the basic plot and meaning of Plato's “Allegory of the Cave."

The allegory of the cave is a story from Plato's Republic. The allegory places you in an uncomfortable setting, attempting to analyze what **reality** is, telling us it may not be what we think. The allegory leads us into a dark cave, telling us about an "underground den", in which the **prisoners** live. It has a "mouth open towards **the sun** and reaching all along the den". Within this cave, there are **prisoners** who have "been from their childhood" inside this cave, never going **outside the cave**. Their "necks are **chained** so that they cannot move". They spend their lives doing the only thing they can, "seeing before them", and only before them, as they are "being prevented by the chains from turning round their heads". These **prisoners** look at **shadows** that are created by a "**fire** is blazing at a distance" which resides "behind them". In front of this fire, is a **walkway**, along which, there are "men carrying all sorts of vessels", such as "statues and figures of animals made of wood and stone and various materials". These men are called the **puppeteers**, displaying the images projected as shadows on the wall in front of the **prisoners**, all the **prisoners** can see throughout their lifetimes. The images are projected with the shadows created by the **puppets** the puppeteers carry. The **prisoners** also begin "naming what was before them", making their system. Having only seen these images their entire life, "**truth** would be nothing but the shadows of the images". All they know, think, and believe are these **shadows**, created by the puppeteers. One of the **prisoners** is eventually freed, but it isn't easy at all. He suffers "sharp pains", as the "glare" of the sun "will distress him". The sun's brightness, however, isn't the greatest pain he will suffer, it will be the **truth**, which is the hardest to accept. The freed **prisoner** "will suffer sharp pains" as the glare of the **sun** "will distress him" and make it difficult for him to perceive the true **realities** he now faces. Though initially "pained and irritated" when forced to look at the light, he will be "required to grow accustomed" to the upper world, gradually seeing things more clearly. He would eventually grow to "pity" his fellow **prisoners** for their **ignorance**, **realizing** he would "rather suffer anything" than live in an illusion as they do. However, upon trying to free his friends, they reject his ideas, calling him "ridiculous". 

When writing the allegory of the Cave, Plato critiques many parts of human society, focusing on **ignorance** and knowledge. The main message is that people commonly accept illusions, or lies, as truth, without dissecting the meaning behind them. Through the prisoners trapped in the cave, believing the **shadows** as reality Plato represents the **ignorant** masses. These people accept everything they see as true and are easily manipulated by others due to their ignorance. On the other hand, Plato speaks of the **philosophers**, who are **enlightened** with true knowledge. In the story, the **enlightened** one pities the prisoners and attempts to free them from the chains of illusions, without success, being met with mockery and resistance. This part is a critique of many things, but in particular, how people are afraid of change. They become accustomed to their illusions and are comfortable despite living a lie. Further, finding truth beyond the illusions takes **critical thinking** about external, and internal things, which is even harder to do. The final point Plato makes is the barrier between the **ignorant** and the **philosopher**, as the **enlightened** one also has difficulty seeing when returning to his former prison to free the ignorant. This is the reason that he was mocked and represents another challenge for the ignorant to reach enlightenment. Through this allegory, Plato also was likely critiquing political and social **systems** like **capitalism**, where people in power benefit from keeping others in **ignorance**, **controlling** them. Plato was likely to see this resistance to enlightenment in his own life. People in power would benefit from keeping others in **ignorance** as **enlightenment**, symbolized by the journey out of the cave, would challenge the **systems** of control the powerful have in place. In this system, the **philosophers** become threats to the **hegemony**, making them enemies of the people in power. They are misunderstood, mocked, and silenced because their ideas disrupt the status quo. Plato's allegory is still very applicable today, suggesting that for most of human society, it has been more comfortable to live in an illusion than to seek truth.


---


