
The matrix tells the story of neo, confined in a simulated world, like the prisoners in the "underground cave" who are chained, seeing only "shadows of objects". Both neo and the prisoners fully belive in these illusions, and have spent their entire lives within them. The Allegory of the cave and the matrix also both describe a process of enlightnment. In the matrix, Neo takes the red pill and "awakens", while the prisoner experiences "the light of the sun". In both stories, these symbolize the truth, but it's not easy to accept. In the allegory of the cave, the prisoner has a diffuclty with the harsh sunlight, and feels pain outside of the cave. Neo of the Matrix has a similar experience, with the shock of the actual reality putiting him in a mental breakdown. In conclusion, both stories focus on the theme of enlightenment and the path from ignorance to understanding.


Despite their huge similarities, there are still differences between the two stories. One big difference is that in The Matrix, the world Neo wakes to is a dystopian, bleak one, while in the allegory of the cave, the prisoner escapes to a beautiful reality outside of the cave, seeing "the sun". In Plato's allegory leaving the cave is a path towards enlightenment, symbolized by the nature outside. However, Neo's awakening brings him to a dark, bleak world, where the truth is much worse than Plato's description of enlightenment. In the allegory, the freed prisoner is able to ''gaze upon the light of the moon and the stars and the spangled heaven" upon being freed, finding true beauty in truth, and having no regrets. However, in the matrix, we see many enlightened people struggling with the bleak world they woke up to, such as Cypher. Cypher works with Morpheous to save the human race from the machines, but tired of the dystopia he lives in, betrays Morpheous, teaming up with Agent Smith of the robots, and attempts to kill Neo. Another difference is that Neo has a choice between ignorance and enlightenment, symbolized by Morpheus offering him to "take the red pill or the blue pill". However, in the allegory, the prisoner has no choice, and is randomly chosen, when "one of them is freed". The choice that is shown in the matrix makes the journey more personal, while the allegory makes the process of enlightenment something imposed on the prisoners. Other minor differences are how in the matrix, Neo is confined in a computer-generated world, while the prisoner is confined in a cave. Also, Neo receives help from Morpheus to escape, while Plato's prisoner finds his way out independently.



---


The allegory of the ccave and the Matrix are two very similar stories, asking quetions about reality and human nature. These similarites are thematic, such as the settings of the stories. Both stories have a large componenet of the story set in a prison world, where the confined are fooled by illusions and don't even know they're trapped. The matrix tells the story of neo, confined in a simulated world, with millions of other humans. They are trapped by the "machines" advanced robots that use the body heat of humans to power themselves. They plug humans into a computer simualtion called the matrix, where they live out lives of people in the 20th century. The simulation keeps them compacent, just how you would want batteries. The allegor of the cave is similar, the prisoners being trapped in an "underground cave", unable to move and seeing only "shadows of objects". They have been chained and watch these shadows all their lives, accepting these shadows as reality Both neo and the prisoners fully belive in these illusions, and have spent their entire lives within them. The Allegory of the cave and the matrix also both describe a process of enlightnment. In the matrix, Neo takes the red pill and "awakens", while the prisoner experiences "the light of the sun". In both stories, these symbolize the truth, but it's not easy to accept. In the allegory of the cave, the prisoner has a diffuclty with the harsh sunlight, and feels pain outside of the cave. Neo of the Matrix has a similar experience, with the shock of the actual reality putiting him in a mental breakdown. Both stories tell a story of the path from ignorance and illusions, to truth and freedom.

  

  

Despite their huge similarities, there are still differences between the two stories. Ignoring obvious ones, like the Matrix being set in the far future, while the allegory is set in the past, there are many key differences to focus on. One big difference is that in The Matrix, the world Neo wakes to is a dystopian, bleak one, while in the allegory of the cave, the prisoner escapes to a beautiful reality outside of the cave, seeing "the sun". In Plato's allegory exiting the cave is a path towards enlightenment, symbolized by the nature outside. However, Neo's awakening brings him to a dark, bleak world, where the truth is much worse than Plato's description of enlightenment. The prisoner in the allegory is able to ''gaze upon the light of the moon and the stars and the spangled heaven" after being freed. He finds beauty and peace in truth, with no regrets. However, in the matrix, we see many enlightened people struggling with the bleak world they woke up to, such as Cypher. Cypher works with Morpheous to save the human race from the machines, but tired of the dystopia he lives in, betrays Morpheous, teaming up with Agent Smith of the robots, and attempts to kill Neo. I belive that this differnece may originate from the different opinions of the writers. Being surrounded by many philosiphers and intellectuals, Plato may have found that becoming "enlgithend" was the best thing to happen to him. He found a community, was able to better enjoy things and so on. On the other hand, I belive the writers of the matrix may have had a converse experience. Living in a very anti intellectual society, "enlightnment" may have come at a cost. The directors may have found themselves unable to engage with others who they thought were still trapped by illsuion, and felt alone throughout their lives. Another important difference is that Neo has a choice between ignorance and enlightenment, symbolized by Morpheus offering him to "take the red pill or the blue pill". In this moment, Neo shows some hestiation, knowing that he has the freedom to chosse.However, in the allegory, the prisoner has no choice, and is randomly chosen, when "one of them is freed". The choice that is shown in the matrix makes the journey more personal, while the allegory makes the process of enlightenment something imposed on the prisoners. I also belive this may be another interesting difference between the two writers. By making the freed prisoner having the truth imposed on him, having no effect on wether he recieved the truth or not, Plato may be saying this about people who are enlightend. His idea may be that some people are destined to reach enlightemnent, while others may not have the capacity to reach this point. As we discussed in class, escaping illusions takes critical thinking, an difficult process that takes lots of thought. Plato may believe that some people are incapable of this, while others are born to do it. The writers of the matrix, however seem to believe that anyone who wants to be free can be free, and that all humans are capable of reaching, and handling the truth. Other minor differences are how in the matrix, Neo is confined in a computer-generated world, while the prisoner is confined in a cave. Also, Neo receives help from Morpheus to escape, while Plato's prisoner finds his way out independently. The differences between the two stories mostly lie in how the stories play out, but still offer intersting alternatives which are great food for thought.

