to-do
	- [ ] work on piq🔺 
	- [ ] work on 
	- [ ] finish 1.2 terms📅 2024-09-17 
	- [ ] thursday quiz - ap pshych📅 2024-09-19


jeguan essay

I wouldn't be who I was without my sophomore year. The huge ups and downs set the flow for the rest of my highschool career, teaching me who I was.


One of my more significant challenges came in my sophomore year. As you may be able to tell, I academically struggled my sophomore year. I'm usually more of a straight-A addicted student, but I had a lot of issues in my sophomore year bringing my grade down. The reason for this was mental health. I think I was trying to be accepted in my sophomore year which is kind of why me and some other people that are now my friends began a study club for AP World History. I was trying to find people who would accept me. The reason for the mental health issues and my mission to find acceptance began when my ex-girl friend broke up with me. At the time I hadn't realized how much it had affected me, so I just tried to push past it, but that was just the beginning. At the time one of my main hobbies was playing video games and this heavily dampened my relationship with my parents. It was as if they thought it was the work of the devil and they would blame everything I did wrong on my hobby that I kind of used as a coping mechanism. One example of this would be that at the time my younger brother was doing poorly in school and constantly getting into trouble. He would never listen, had anger issues, and was always causing problems. One day at school he made comments about self-harm and suicide causing social workers to come to our house. Somehow my parents blamed everything on me saying that I was a bad example for my little brother and that a lot of it is my fault. This led to my parents not believing in me and being unwilling to pay for my AP exams. Things did eventually get better after the social workers recommended family therapy. I also got stronger from this challenge. I realized that I would have to start making money myself and that sparked my new hobby for building and selling computers. In the end, I think I recovered pretty well.

larry retard work
Benedicto - Analyze four questions from the The American Community Survey - Notebook Check [#1](https://www.instagram.com/explore/tags/1/) Gonzales - Homework 8/30 - Read and annotate "The Allegory of the Cave" - Senior Lit 9/3 - They Live & hegemony - Senior Lit 9/11 - Critical Thinking & Decolonization w/ bell hooks - Senior Lit 9/13 - Internalized Capitalism Do Now & Reflection - Senior Lit 9/13 - What is Internalized Capitalism? - 7 signs you've internalized capitalism

Enter



