

### AP Psych

Astrum Deus does not spawn on its own and can be summoned by using the [Astral Beacon](https://calamitymod.wiki.gg/wiki/Astral_Beacon "Astral Beacon") with a [Titan Heart](https://calamitymod.wiki.gg/wiki/Titan_Heart "Titan Heart") or [Starcore](https://calamitymod.wiki.gg/wiki/Starcore "Starcore") in the inventory at night. Astrum Deus can be spawned even in early Hardmode with Titan Hearts, but the boss is intended to be fought after the [Lunatic Cultist](https://calamitymod.wiki.gg/wiki/Lunatic_Cultist "Lunatic Cultist") has been defeated. When successfully activated, 2 astral stars rise from the beacon and eventually combine to summon Astrum Deus. When first spawned, it has high defense and [damage reduction](https://calamitymod.wiki.gg/wiki/Damage_reduction "Damage reduction") for 10 seconds to prevent using AoE attacks to kill it instantly.


-
	Stolen
	Nightmare
	The Escape
	By Chance
	Partner roulette, change wife, boobie trap, illicit love, fruitless, stolen ,take a peek
	night hospital


I'm a high school senior working on an essay for my european literature class. I want you to use
 this information about the allegory of the cave I want you to do the following:
 
 1 - I want you to answer this question , explain the meaning of Plato's “Allegory of the Cave.".answer the quesion in one paragraph, and Use 10 quotes. 
 
2 - , give me bulletpoints as guidelines as to what points i should include in my own answer. These bulletpoints can be things i must go over, and useful interprtations, or quotes

1
The Allegory of the Cave
By Plato
Written 360 B.C.E
Translated by Benjamin Jowett
The son of a wealthy and noble family, Plato (427-347 B.C.) was
preparing for a career in politics when the trial and eventual execution of
Socrates (399 B.C.) changed the course of his life. He abandoned his
political career and turned to philosophy, opening a school on the
outskirts of Athens dedicated to the Socratic search for wisdom. Plato's
school, then known as the Academy, was the first university in western
history and operated from 387 B.C. until A.D. 529, when it was closed by
Justinian.
Unlike his mentor Socrates, Plato was both a writer and a teacher. His
writings are in the form of dialogues, with Socrates as the principal
speaker. In the Allegory of the Cave, Plato described symbolically the
predicament in which mankind finds itself and proposes a way of
salvation. The Allegory presents, in brief form, most of Plato's major
philosophical assumptions: his belief that the world revealed by our senses
is not the real world but only a poor copy of it, and that the real world can
only be apprehended intellectually; his idea that knowledge cannot be
transferred from teacher to student, but rather that education consists in
directing student's minds toward what is real and important and allowing
them to apprehend it for themselves; his faith that the universe ultimately
is good; his conviction that enlightened individuals have an obligation to
the rest of society, and that a good society must be one in which the truly
wise (the Philosopher- King) are the rulers.
The Allegory of the Cave can be found in Book VII of Plato's best-known
work, The Republic, a lengthy dialogue on the nature of justice. Often
regarded as a utopian blueprint, The Republic is dedicated toward a
discussion of the education required of a Philosopher-King.
The following selection is taken from the Benjamin Jowett translation
(Vintage, 1991), pp. 253- 261. As you read the Allegory, try to make a
mental picture of the cave Plato describes. Better yet, why not draw a
picture of it and refer to it as you read the selection. In many ways,
understanding Plato's Allegory of the Cave will make your foray into the
world of philosophical thought much less burdensome. [Socrates] And now, I said, let me show in a figure how far our nature is
enlightened or unenlightened: --Behold! Human beings living in a
underground den, which has a mouth open towards the light and reaching all
along the den; here they have been from their childhood, and have their legs
and necks chained so that they cannot move, and can only see before them,
being prevented by the chains from turning round their heads. Above and
behind them a fire is blazing at a distance, and between the fire and the
prisoners there is a raised way; and you will see, if you look, a low wall built
along the way, like the screen which marionette players have in front of them,
over which they show the puppets.
[Glaucon] I see.
[Socrates] And do you see, I said, men passing along the wall carrying all
sorts of vessels, and statues and figures of animals made of wood and stone
and various materials, which appear over the wall? Some of them are talking,
others silent.
[Glaucon] You have shown me a strange image, and they are strange
prisoners.
2
[Socrates] Like ourselves, I replied; and they see only their own shadows, or
the shadows of one another, which the fire throws on the opposite wall of the
cave?
[Glaucon] True, he said; how could they see anything but the shadows if they
were never allowed to move their heads?
[Socrates] And of the objects which are being carried in like manner they
would only see the shadows?
[Glaucon] Yes, he said.
[Socrates] And if they were able to converse with one another, would they not
suppose that they were naming what was actually before them?
[Glaucon] Very true.
[Socrates] And suppose further that the prison had an echo which came from
the other side, would they not be sure to fancy when one of the passers-by
spoke that the voice which they heard came from the passing shadow?
[Glaucon] No question, he replied.
[Socrates] To them, I said, the truth would be literally nothing but the
shadows of the images.
[Glaucon] That is certain.
[Socrates] And now look again, and see what will naturally follow if the
prisoners are released and disabused of their error. At first, when any of them
is liberated and compelled suddenly to stand up and turn his neck round and
walk and look towards the light, he will suffer sharp pains; the glare will
distress him, and he will be unable to see the realities of which in his former
state he had seen the shadows; and then conceive some one saying to him, that
what he saw before was an illusion, but that now, when he is approaching
nearer to being and his eye is turned towards more real existence, he has a
clearer vision, -what will be his reply? And you may further imagine that his
instructor is pointing to the objects as they pass and requiring him to name
them, -will he not be perplexed? Will he not fancy that the shadows which he
formerly saw are truer than the objects which are now shown to him?
[Glaucon] Far truer.
[Socrates] And if he is compelled to look straight at the light, will he not have
a pain in his eyes which will make him turn away to take and take in the
objects of vision which he can see, and which he will conceive to be in reality
clearer than the things which are now being shown to him?
[Glaucon] True, he will.
[Socrates] And suppose once more, that he is reluctantly dragged up a steep
and rugged ascent, and held fast until he's forced into the presence of the sun
himself, is he not likely to be pained and irritated? When he approaches the
light his eyes will be dazzled, and he will not be able to see anything at all of
what are now called realities.
[Glaucon] Not all in a moment, he said.
[Socrates] He will require to grow accustomed to the sight of the upper world.
And first he will see the shadows best, next the reflections of men and other
objects in the water, and then the objects themselves; then he will gaze upon
the light of the moon and the stars and the spangled heaven; and he will see
3
the sky and the stars by night better than the sun or the light of the sun by day?
[Glaucon] Certainly.
[Socrates] Last of all, he will be able to see the sun, and not mere reflections
of him in the water, but he will see him in his own proper place, and not in
another; and he will contemplate him as he is.
[Glaucon] Certainly.
[Socrates] He will then proceed to argue that this is he who gives the season
and the years, and is the guardian of all that is in the visible world, and in a
certain way the cause of all things which he and his fellows have been
accustomed to behold?
[Glaucon] Clearly, he said, he would first see the sun and then reason about
him.
[Socrates] And when he remembered his old habitation, and the wisdom of the
den and his fellow-prisoners, do you not suppose that he would felicitate
himself on the change, and pity them?
[Glaucon] Certainly, he would.
[Socrates] And if they were in the habit of conferring honours among
themselves on those who were quickest to observe the passing shadows and to
remark which of them went before, and which followed after, and which were
together; and who were therefore best able to draw conclusions as to the
future, do you think that he would care for such honours and glories, or envy
the possessors of them? Would he not say with Homer, Better to be the poor
servant of a poor master, and to endure anything, rather than think as they do
and live after their manner?
[Glaucon] Yes, he said, I think that he would rather suffer anything than
entertain these false notions and live in this miserable manner.
[Socrates] Imagine once more, I said, such an one coming suddenly out of the
sun to be replaced in his old situation; would he not be certain to have his eyes
full of darkness?
[Glaucon] To be sure, he said.
[Socrates] And if there were a contest, and he had to compete in measuring
the shadows with the prisoners who had never moved out of the den, while his
sight was still weak, and before his eyes had become steady (and the time
which would be needed to acquire this new habit of sight might be very
considerable) would he not be ridiculous? Men would say of him that up he
went and down he came without his eyes; and that it was better not even to
think of ascending; and if any one tried to loose another and lead him up to the
light, let them only catch the offender, and they would put him to death.
[Glaucon] No question, he said.
[Socrates] This entire allegory, I said, you may now append, dear Glaucon, to
the previous argument; the prison-house is the world of sight, the light of the
fire is the sun, and you will not misapprehend me if you interpret the journey
upwards to be the ascent of the soul into the intellectual world according to
my poor belief, which, at your desire, I have expressed whether rightly or
wrongly God knows. But, whether true or false, my opinion is that in the
world of knowledge the idea of good appears last of all, and is seen only with
an effort; and, when seen, is also inferred to be the universal author of all
things beautiful and right, parent of light and of the lord of light in this visible
4
world, and the immediate source of reason and truth in the intellectual; and
that this is the power upon which he who would act rationally, either in public
or private life must have his eye fixed.
[Glaucon] I agree, he said, as far as I am able to understand you.
[Socrates] Moreover, I said, you must not wonder that those who attain to this
beatific vision are unwilling to descend to human affairs; for their souls are
ever hastening into the upper world where they desire to dwell; which desire
of theirs is very natural, if our allegory may be trusted.
[Glaucon] Yes, very natural.
[Socrates] And is there anything surprising in one who passes from divine
contemplations to the evil state of man, misbehaving himself in a ridiculous
manner; if, while his eyes are blinking and before he has become accustomed
to the surrounding darkness, he is compelled to fight in courts of law, or in
other places, about the images or the shadows of images of justice, and is
endeavouring to meet the conceptions of those who have never yet seen
absolute justice?
[Glaucon] Anything but surprising, he replied.
[Socrates] Any one who has common sense will remember that the
bewilderments of the eyes are of two kinds, and arise from two causes, either
from coming out of the light or from going into the light, which is true of the
mind's eye, quite as much as of the bodily eye; and he who remembers this
when he sees any one whose vision is perplexed and weak, will not be too
ready to laugh; he will first ask whether that soul of man has come out of the
brighter light, and is unable to see because unaccustomed to the dark, or
having turned from darkness to the day is dazzled by excess of light. And he
will count the one happy in his condition and state of being, and he will pity
the other; or, if he have a mind to laugh at the soul which comes from below
into the light, there will be more reason in this than in the laugh which greets
him who returns from above out of the light into the den.
[Glaucon] That, he said, is a very just distinction.
[Socrates] But then, if I am right, certain professors of education must be
wrong when they say that they can put a knowledge into the soul which was
not there before, like sight into blind eyes.
[Glaucon] They undoubtedly say this, he replied.
[Socrates] Whereas, our argument shows that the power and capacity of
learning exists in the soul already; and that just as the eye was unable to turn
from darkness to light without the whole body, so too the instrument of
knowledge can only by the movement of the whole soul be turned from the
world of becoming into that of being, and learn by degrees to endure the sight
of being, and of the brightest and best of being, or in other words, of the good.
[Glaucon] Very true.
[Socrates] And must there not be some art which will effect conversion in the
easiest and quickest manner; not implanting the faculty of sight, for that exists
already, but has been turned in the wrong direction, and is looking away from
the truth?
[Glaucon] Yes, he said, such an art may be presumed.
[Socrates] And whereas the other so-called virtues of the soul seem to be akin
to bodily qualities, for even when they are not originally innate they can be
5
implanted later by habit and exercise, the of wisdom more than anything else
contains a divine element which always remains, and by this conversion is
rendered useful and profitable; or, on the other hand, hurtful and useless. Did
you never observe the narrow intelligence flashing from the keen eye of a
clever rogue --how eager he is, how clearly his paltry soul sees the way to his
end; he is the reverse of blind, but his keen eyesight is forced into the service
of evil, and he is mischievous in proportion to his cleverness.
[Glaucon] Very true, he said.
[Socrates] But what if there had been a circumcision of such natures in the
days of their youth; and they had been severed from those sensual pleasures,
such as eating and drinking, which, like leaden weights, were attached to them
at their birth, and which drag them down and turn the vision of their souls
upon the things that are below --if, I say, they had been released from these
impediments and turned in the opposite direction, the very same faculty in
them would have seen the truth as keenly as they see what their eyes are
turned to now.
[Glaucon] Very likely.
[Socrates] Yes, I said; and there is another thing which is likely. or rather a
necessary inference from what has preceded, that neither the uneducated and
uninformed of the truth, nor yet those who never make an end of their
education, will be able ministers of State; not the former, because they have
no single aim of duty which is the rule of all their actions, private as well as
public; nor the latter, because they will not act at all except upon compulsion,
fancying that they are already dwelling apart in the islands of the blest.
[Glaucon] Very true, he replied.
Then, I said, the business of us who are the founders of the State will be to
compel the best minds to attain that knowledge which we have already shown
to be the greatest of all-they must continue to ascend until they arrive at the
good; but when they have ascended and seen enough we must not allow them
to do as they do now.
[Glaucon] What do you mean?
[Socrates] I mean that they remain in the upper world: but this must not be
allowed; they must be made to descend again among the prisoners in the den,
and partake of their labours and honours, whether they are worth having or
not.
[Glaucon] But is not this unjust? he said; ought we to give them a worse life,
when they might have a better?
[Socrates] You have again forgotten, my friend, I said, the intention of the
legislator, who did not aim at making any one class in the State happy above
the rest; the happiness was to be in the whole State, and he held the citizens
together by persuasion and necessity, making them benefactors of the State,
and therefore benefactors of one another; to this end he created them, not to
please themselves, but to be his instruments in binding up the State.
[Glaucon] True, he said, I had forgotten.
[Socrates] Observe, Glaucon, that there will be no injustice in compelling our
philosophers to have a care and providence of others; we shall explain to them
that in other States, men of their class are not obliged to share in the toils of
politics: and this is reasonable, for they grow up at their own sweet will, and
the government would rather not have them. Being self-taught, they cannot be
expected to show any gratitude for a culture which they have never received.
6
But we have brought you into the world to be rulers of the hive, kings of
yourselves and of the other citizens, and have educated you far better and
more perfectly than they have been educated, and you are better able to share
in the double duty. Wherefore each of you, when his turn comes, must go
down to the general underground abode, and get the habit of seeing in the
dark. When you have acquired the habit, you will see ten thousand times
better than the inhabitants of the den, and you will know what the several
images are, and what they represent, because you have seen the beautiful and
just and good in their truth. And thus our State which is also yours will be a
reality, and not a dream only, and will be administered in a spirit unlike that of
other States, in which men fight with one another about shadows only and are
distracted in the struggle for power, which in their eyes is a great good.
Whereas the truth is that the State in which the rulers are most reluctant to
govern is always the best and most quietly governed, and the State in which
they are most eager, the worst.
[Glaucon] Quite true, he replied.
[Socrates] And will our pupils, when they hear this, refuse to take their turn at
the toils of State, when they are allowed to spend the greater part of their time
with one another in the heavenly light?
[Glaucon] Impossible, he answered; for they are just men, and the commands
which we impose upon them are just; there can be no doubt that every one of
them will take office as a stern necessity, and not after the fashion of our
present rulers of State.
[Socrates] Yes, my friend, I said; and there lies the point. You must contrive
for your future rulers another and a better life than that of a ruler, and then you
may have a well-ordered State; for only in the State which offers this, will
they rule who are truly rich, not in silver and gold, but in virtue and wisdom,
which are the true blessings of life. Whereas if they go to the administration of
public affairs, poor and hungering after the' own private advantage, thinking
that hence they are to snatch the chief good, order there can never be; for they
will be fighting about office, and the civil and domestic broils which thus arise
will be the ruin of the rulers themselves and of the whole State.
[Glaucon] Most true, he replied.
[Socrates] And the only life which looks down upon the life of political
ambitionis that of true philosophy. Do you know of any other?
[Glaucon] Indeed, I do not, he said.
[Socrates] And those who govern ought not to be lovers of the task? For, if
they are, there will be rival lovers, and they will fight.
[Glaucon] No question.
[Socrates] Who then are those whom we shall compel to be guardians? Surely
they will be the men who are wisest about affairs of State, and by whom the
State is best administered, and who at the same time have other honoursand
another and a better life than that of politics?
[Glaucon] They are the men, and I will choose them, he replied.
[Socrates] And now shall we consider in what way such guardians will be
produced, and how they are to be brought from darkness to light, --as some
are said to have ascended from the world below to the gods?
[Glaucon] By all means, he replied.
7
[Socrates] The process, I said, is not the turning over of an oyster-shell, but
the turning round of a soul passing from a day which is little better than night
to the true day of being, that is, the ascent from below, which we affirm to be
true philosophy?
[Glaucon] Quite so. 



