	Amlit and Amdem to do
	amlit
		Senior Lit 8/23 - McNuggets & chess as metaphors
			done
		Senior Lit 8/21 - Intro to systems & system analysis
			done
		Senior Lit 8/21 - Student Information Survey
			done
		Senior Lit 8/21 - Syllabus Scavenger Hunt
			done
	amdem
		Analyze the American Community Survey
			done?
		Practice for Census Project
			done
		Syllabus and Class Agreement
			done?

Amlit class

Amdem class
	add photos
	4 photos that you can totally explain what's happening geologically
	from provided selection and camera
	
CENSUS PROJECT
	questions
		general
			age
				What is your age group?
			gender
			race
			area code
			parent's education level
			how many people in household
			college aspirations
			Are you currently enrolled in any educational program?
		specific
			How important is education to you?
			How important is education to your family?
			How much do you think education can help your social mobility?
			how many people in your household have a degree
			-
			-
-On a scale of 1 to 5, how important is pursuing higher education to you personally?


-What is the highest level of education you aspire to achieve?


-Do you feel that your current education level will provide you with enough -opportunities for 
career advancement?


-How much financial support do you believe is available to you for pursuing higher education?


-How confident are you in your ability to achieve your academic goals?


-How much do you agree with the statement: "Higher education is necessary for achieving success in my career field of choice."

-


 
