

- [ ] work on CAD homework
- [ ] look for scholarships
- [ ] work on gonzo essay
- [ ] work on benedicto extra credit
- [ ] collect 10 articles for bfs
- [ ] make bfs slides
- [x] let snack people know theyre going ✅ 2024-09-26

- [ ] 


### BFS meeting

review what we did last year

review goals for this year

points to hit on
	about college apps
	about cosmic chronicle
	about bal's slice of pi
	about meetings at noisebridge


this year's goals
	college apps
	apply for grants
	go on field trips
	make the terrarium
	upgrade library pcs

**college apps**

dates
what UC wants
how to start
how to use chatgpt



The prisoner in the allegory is able to ''gaze upon the light of the moon and the stars and the spangled heaven" after being freed. He finds beauty and peace in truth, with no regrets

The matrix tells the story of neo, confined in a simulated world, like the prisoners in the cave who are chained, seeing only shadows of objects. Both neo and the prisoners fully belive in these illusions, and have spent their entire lives within them. The Allegory of the cave and the matrix also both describe a process of enlightnment.

In the allegory of the cave, the prisoner has a diffuclty with the harsh sunlight, and feels pain outside fo the cave. Neo of the Matrix has a similar experience, with the shock of the actual reality putiting him in a mental breakdown.


### Explain the basic plot and meaning of Plato's “Allegory of the Cave."

The allegory of the cave is a story from Plato's *Republic*. The allegory places you in an uncomfortable setting, attempting to analyze what reality is, telling us it may not be what we think. The allegory leads us into a dark cave, telling us about an "underground den," in which the prisoners live. It has a "mouth open towards the sun and reaching all along the den." Within this cave, there are prisoners who have "been from their childhood" inside this cave, never going outside the cave. Their "necks are chained so that they cannot move." They spend their lives doing the only thing they can, "seeing before them," and only before them, as they are "being prevented by the chains from turning round their heads." These prisoners look at shadows that are created by a "fire is blazing at a distance" which resides "behind them." In front of this fire is a walkway, along which, there are "men carrying all sorts of vessels," such as "statues and figures of animals made of wood and stone and various materials." These men are called the puppeteers, displaying the images projected as shadows on the wall in front of the prisoners, all the prisoners can see throughout their lifetimes. The images are projected with the shadows created by the puppets the puppeteers carry. The prisoners also begin "naming what was before them," making their system. Having only seen these images their entire life, "truth would be nothing but the shadows of the images." All they know, think, and believe are these shadows, created by the puppeteers. One of the prisoners is eventually freed, but it isn't easy at all. He suffers "sharp pains," as the "glare" of the sun "will distress him." The sun's brightness, however, isn't the greatest pain he will suffer, it will be the truth, which is the hardest to accept. The freed prisoner "will suffer sharp pains" as the glare of the sun "will distress him" and make it difficult for him to perceive the true realities he now faces. Though initially "pained and irritated" when forced to look at the light, he will be "required to grow accustomed" to the upper world, gradually seeing things more clearly. He would eventually grow to "pity" his fellow prisoners for their ignorance, realizing he would "rather suffer anything" than live in an illusion as they do. However, upon trying to free his friends, they reject his ideas, calling him "ridiculous."

When writing the allegory of the cave, Plato critiques many parts of human society, focusing on ignorance and knowledge. The main message is that people commonly accept illusions, or lies, as truth, without dissecting the meaning behind them. Through the prisoners trapped in the cave, believing the shadows as reality, Plato represents the ignorant masses. These people accept everything they see as true and are easily manipulated by others due to their ignorance. On the other hand, Plato speaks of the philosophers, who are enlightened with true knowledge. In the story, the enlightened one pities the prisoners and attempts to free them from the chains of illusions, without success, being met with mockery and resistance. This part is a critique of many things, but in particular, how people are afraid of change. They become accustomed to their illusions and are comfortable despite living a lie. Further, finding truth beyond the illusions takes critical thinking about external and internal things, which is even harder to do. The final point Plato makes is the barrier between the ignorant and the philosopher, as the enlightened one also has difficulty seeing when returning to his former prison to free the ignorant. This is the reason that he was mocked and represents another challenge for the ignorant to reach enlightenment. Through this allegory, Plato was likely critiquing political and social systems like capitalism, where people in power benefit from keeping others in ignorance, controlling them. Plato was likely to see this resistance to enlightenment in his own life. People in power would benefit from keeping others in ignorance as enlightenment, symbolized by the journey out of the cave, would challenge the systems of control the powerful have in place. In this system, the philosophers become threats to the hegemony, making them enemies of the people in power. They are misunderstood, mocked, and silenced because their ideas disrupt the status quo. Plato's allegory is still very applicable today, suggesting that for most of human society, it has been more comfortable to live in an illusion than to seek truth. 
